Create music_assistant.markdown (#35487)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/music_assistant.markdown

---
title: Music Assistant
description: Instructions on how to integrate Music Assistant into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media player

> featured: true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ha_release: 2024.11.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ha_release: 2024.11
```

---
title: Music Assistant
description: Instructions on how to integrate Music Assistant into Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Media player
ha_release: 2024.11
ha_iot_class: Local Push
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@music_assistant'
ha_domain: music_assistant
ha_platforms:
  - media_player
ha_zeroconf: true
ha_integration_type: integration
---

> The Music Assistant (MA) integration allows you to connect Home Assistant to a [Music Assistant Server](https://music-assistant.io/). Once configured, all [MA Players](https://music-assistant.io/player-support/) show up as Home Assistant [media player entities](/integrations/media_player/).  Media players will allow you to control media playback and see the currently playing item.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Music Assistant**(MA) {% term integrations %} allows you to connect Home Assistant to a [Music Assistant Server](https://music-assistant.io/). Once configured, all [MA Players](https://music-assistant.io/player-support/) show up as Home Assistant [media player entities](/integrations/media_player/).  Media players will allow you to control media playback and see the currently playing item.
```

There is currently support for the following Home Assistant Platforms:

- [Media player](#media-player)

All of the Home Assistant [Media Player Control Actions](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/media_player/#media-control-actions) are supported.

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

### Manual configuration

> Under normal circumstances, Home Assistant will automatically discover your running Music Assistant Server. If there is something special about the HA or MA setup (e.g. the MA server is running as a remote Docker container) or discovery is not working, it is possible to manually specify the URL to your Music Assistant server. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Under normal circumstances, Home Assistant automatically discovers your running Music Assistant Server. If something special about the HA or MA setup (for example, the MA server is running as a remote Docker container) or discovery is not working, you can manually specify the URL to your Music Assistant server. 
```

## Media player

> The Music Assistant media player platform will create media player entities for all players available in MA including those imported from Home Assistant. This is needed to provide the full functionality Music Assistant has to offer. These entities will display media information, playback progress, and playback controls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Music Assistant media player creates media player entities for all players available in MA including those imported from Home Assistant. This is needed to provide the full functionality Music Assistant has to offer. These entities will display media information, playback progress, and playback controls.
```

## Notes

> - Any HA players added to MA will appear duplicated as the MA version of the player is created. The original HA player can be hidden if desired.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Any Home Assistant players added to Music Assistant will appear duplicated as the MA version of the player is created. The original HA player can be hidden if desired.
```
